chapter_codecs.md, before:

# Matroska Chapter Codecs

Chapter codecs are a way to add more complex playback features than the usual linear playback.

Some `ChapProcess` elements hold commands to execute when entering/leaving a chapter.

When chapter codecs are used the `EditionFlagOrdered` of the edition they belong to **MUST** be set.

Each `ChapProcessCodecID` value in an edition **SHOULD** have a single interpreter for the whole `EditionEntry`,
if that `ChapProcessCodecID` value is supported by the `Matroska Player`.
This is necessary to be able to read/write global variables that can be used between chapters.

## Segment Linking

Chapter Codecs can reference another `Segment` and jump to that `Segment`.

The Chapter Codecs **MAY** store the Segment information in their own format, possibly not using the `SegmentUUID` format.
The `ChapterTranslate` element and its child elements **SHOULD** be used
to link the internal chapter codec representation, the chapter codec number and the actual Segment it represents.

For example, if a chapter codec of type "1" in SegmentA needs to link to SegmentB,
it can store that information as "SegB" in its internal data.

The translation `ChapterTranslate` in SegmentB would use the following elements:

* `ChapterTranslate\ChapterTranslateCodec` = 1

* `ChapterTranslate\ChapterTranslateID` = "SegB"

The `Matroska Player` **MUST** use the `SegmentFamily` to find all Segments that need translation
between the chapter codec values and the actual segment it targets.

# Matroska Chapter Codecs and Nested Chapters

When `Nested Chapters` contain chapters codecs -- via the `ChapProcess` element --
the enter/leave commands -- `ChapProcessTime` element -- **MUST** be executed in a specific order,
if the Matroska Player supports the chapter codecs included in the chapters.

When starting playback, the `Matroska Player` **MUST** start at the `ChapterTimeStart` of the first chapter of the ordered chapter.
The enter commands of that chapter **MUST** be executed.
If that chapter contains `Nested Chapters`, the enter commands of the `Nested Chapter` with the same `ChapterTimeStart` **MUST** be executed.
If that chapter contains `Nested Chapters`, the enter commands of the `Nested Chapter` with the same `ChapterTimeStart` **MUST** be executed,
and so on until there is no `Nested Chapter` with the same `ChapterTimeStart`.

When switching from a chapter to another:

* the leave commands (`ChapProcessTime`=2) of the
chapter **MUST** be executed, then the leave commands of its parent chapter, etc., until the
common `Parent Chapter` or `Edition` element. The leave command of that `Parent Chapter` or `Edition` element
**MUST NOT** be executed.

* the enter commands (`ChapProcessTime`=1) of the `Nested Chapter` of the common `Parent Chapter` or `Edition` element,
to reach the chapter we switch to, **MUST** be executed, then the enter commands of its `Nested Chapter`
to reach the chapter we switch to **MUST** be executed, until that chapter is the chapter we switch to.
The enter commands of that chapter **MUST** be executed as well.

When the last Chapter finished playing, i.e., its `ChapterTimeEnd` has been reached,
the `Matroska Player` **MUST** execute its leaved commands, then the leave commands of it's `Parent Chapter`,
until the parent of the chapter is the Edition.


## Matroska Script

This is the case when `ChapProcessCodecID` = 0. This is a script language build for
Matroska purposes. The inspiration comes from [@?ActionScript], [@?ECMAScript] and other similar
scripting languages. The commands are stored as text commands, in UTF-8. The syntax is C like,
with commands spanned on many lines, each terminating with a semicolon ";". You can also include comments
at the end of lines with "//" or comment many lines using "/* \*/". The scripts are stored
in `ChapProcessData`. For the moment `ChapProcessPrivate` is not used.

The one and only command existing for the moment is `GotoAndPlay( ChapterUID );`. As the
same suggests, it means that, when this command is encountered, the `Matroska Player`
**SHOULD** jump to the `Chapter` specified by the UID and play it, as long as this `Chapter` exists.

## DVD Menu

This is the case when `ChapProcessCodecID` = 1. Each level of a chapter corresponds
to a logical level in the DVD system [@?DVD-Video] that is stored in the first octet of the `ChapProcessPrivate`.
This DVD hierarchy is as follows:

| ChapProcessPrivate | DVD Name | Hierarchy                                           | Commands Possible | Comment                                   |
|--------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| 0x30               | SS       | DVD domain                                          | -                 | First Play, Video Manager, Video Title    |
| 0x2A               | LU       | Language Unit                                       | -                 | Contains only PGCs                        |
| 0x28               | TT       | Title                                               | -                 | Contains only PGCs                        |
| 0x20               | PGC      | Program Group Chain (PGC)                           | *                 |                                           |
| 0x18               | PG       | Program 1 / Program 2 / Program 3                   | -                 |                                           |
| 0x10               | PTT      | Part Of Title 1 / Part Of Title 2                   | -                 | Equivalent to the chapters on the sleeve. |
| 0x08               | CN       | Cell 1 / Cell 2 / Cell 3 / Cell 4 / Cell 5 / Cell 6 | -                 |                                           |

You can also recover wether a Segment is a Video Manager (VMG), Video Title Set (VTS)
or Video Title Set Menu (VTSM) from the ChapterTranslateID element found in the Segment Info.
This field uses 2 octets as follows:

1.  Domain Type: 0 for VMG, the domain number for VTS and VTSM
2.  Domain Value: 0 for VMG and VTSM, 1 for the VTS source.

For instance, the menu part from VTS_01_0.VOB would be coded [1,0] and the content
part from VTS_02_3.VOB would be [2,1]. The VMG is always [0,0]

The following octets of `ChapProcessPrivate` are as follows:

| Octet 1 | DVD Name | Following Octets                                                                             |
|---------|----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 0x30    | SS       | Domain name code (1: 0x00= First play, 0xC0= VMG, 0x40= VTSM, 0x80= VTS) + VTS(M) number (2) |
| 0x2A    | LU       | Language code (2) + Language extension (1)                                                   |
| 0x28    | TT       | global Title number (2) + corresponding TTN of the VTS (1)                                   |
| 0x20    | PGC      | PGC number (2) + Playback Type (1) + Disabled User Operations (4)                            |
| 0x18    | PG       | Program number (2)                                                                           |
| 0x10    | PTT      | PTT-chapter number (1)                                                                       |
| 0x08    | CN       | Cell number [VOB ID(2)][Cell ID(1)][Angle Num(1)]                                            |

If the level specified in `ChapProcessPrivate` is a PGC (0x20), there is an octet
called the Playback Type, specifying the kind of PGC defined:

*   `0x00`: entry only/basic PGC

*   `0x82`: Title+Entry Menu (only found in the Video Manager domain)

*   `0x83`: Root Menu (only found in the VTSM domain)

*   `0x84`: Subpicture Menu (only found in the VTSM domain)

*   `0x85`: Audio Menu (only found in the VTSM domain)

*   `0x86`: Angle Menu (only found in the VTSM domain)

*   `0x87`: Chapter Menu (only found in the VTSM domain)

The next 4 following octets correspond to the `User Operation flags`
in the standard PGC. When a bit is set, the command **SHOULD** be disabled.

`ChapProcessData` contains the pre/post/cell commands in binary format as there are stored on a DVD.
There is just an octet preceding these data to specify the number of commands in the element.
As follows: [# of commands(1)][command 1 (8)][command 2 (8)][command 3 (8)].

More information on the DVD commands and format on DVD
from the [@?DVD-Info] project and [@?Inside-DVD-Video].

Commit message:

Add MatroskaJS Chapter Codec
Rather than reinventing the wheel with a custom language, we can reuse and well-known one.

The goal of Matroska Script was to be similar to JavaScript/ECMAStrip/ActionScript.
But, in JS, integers can only use 56 bits. So not all ChapterUID (64-bit unsigned integer) can be addressed
with the current Matroska Script stable API.

Rather than adding a different GotoAndPlay that is compatible with JavaScript (using a string), we start from
scratch with ECMAScript 6th Edition (ES6).

chapter_codecs.md, after:

# Matroska Chapter Codecs

Chapter codecs are a way to add more complex playback features than the usual linear playback.

Some `ChapProcess` elements hold commands to execute when entering/leaving a chapter.

When chapter codecs are used the `EditionFlagOrdered` of the edition they belong to **MUST** be set.

Each `ChapProcessCodecID` value in an edition **SHOULD** have a single interpreter for the whole `EditionEntry`,
if that `ChapProcessCodecID` value is supported by the `Matroska Player`.
This is necessary to be able to read/write global variables that can be used between chapters.

## Segment Linking

Chapter Codecs can reference another `Segment` and jump to that `Segment`.

The Chapter Codecs **MAY** store the Segment information in their own format, possibly not using the `SegmentUUID` format.
The `ChapterTranslate` element and its child elements **SHOULD** be used
to link the internal chapter codec representation, the chapter codec number and the actual Segment it represents.

For example, if a chapter codec of type "1" in SegmentA needs to link to SegmentB,
it can store that information as "SegB" in its internal data.

The translation `ChapterTranslate` in SegmentB would use the following elements:

* `ChapterTranslate\ChapterTranslateCodec` = 1

* `ChapterTranslate\ChapterTranslateID` = "SegB"

The `Matroska Player` **MUST** use the `SegmentFamily` to find all Segments that need translation
between the chapter codec values and the actual segment it targets.

# Matroska Chapter Codecs and Nested Chapters

When `Nested Chapters` contain chapters codecs -- via the `ChapProcess` element --
the enter/leave commands -- `ChapProcessTime` element -- **MUST** be executed in a specific order,
if the Matroska Player supports the chapter codecs included in the chapters.

When starting playback, the `Matroska Player` **MUST** start at the `ChapterTimeStart` of the first chapter of the ordered chapter.
The enter commands of that chapter **MUST** be executed.
If that chapter contains `Nested Chapters`, the enter commands of the `Nested Chapter` with the same `ChapterTimeStart` **MUST** be executed.
If that chapter contains `Nested Chapters`, the enter commands of the `Nested Chapter` with the same `ChapterTimeStart` **MUST** be executed,
and so on until there is no `Nested Chapter` with the same `ChapterTimeStart`.

When switching from a chapter to another:

* the leave commands (`ChapProcessTime`=2) of the
chapter **MUST** be executed, then the leave commands of its parent chapter, etc., until the
common `Parent Chapter` or `Edition` element. The leave command of that `Parent Chapter` or `Edition` element
**MUST NOT** be executed.

* the enter commands (`ChapProcessTime`=1) of the `Nested Chapter` of the common `Parent Chapter` or `Edition` element,
to reach the chapter we switch to, **MUST** be executed, then the enter commands of its `Nested Chapter`
to reach the chapter we switch to **MUST** be executed, until that chapter is the chapter we switch to.
The enter commands of that chapter **MUST** be executed as well.

When the last Chapter finished playing, i.e., its `ChapterTimeEnd` has been reached,
the `Matroska Player` **MUST** execute its leaved commands, then the leave commands of it's `Parent Chapter`,
until the parent of the chapter is the Edition.


## Matroska Script

This is the case when `ChapProcessCodecID` = 0. This is a script language build for
Matroska purposes. The inspiration comes from [@?ActionScript], [@?ECMAScript] and other similar
scripting languages. The commands are stored as text commands, in UTF-8. The syntax is C like,
with commands spanned on many lines, each terminating with a semicolon ";". You can also include comments
at the end of lines with "//" or comment many lines using "/* \*/". The scripts are stored
in `ChapProcessData`. For the moment `ChapProcessPrivate` is not used.

The one and only command existing for the moment is `GotoAndPlay( ChapterUID );`. As the
same suggests, it means that, when this command is encountered, the `Matroska Player`
**SHOULD** jump to the `Chapter` specified by the UID and play it, as long as this `Chapter` exists.

## MatroskaJS

This is the case when `ChapProcessCodecID` = 2. This is a script language build for
Matroska purposes. It uses the [@!ECMAScript] 6th Edition (ES6) syntax. The commands are stored as text commands, in UTF-8.
The syntax is C like, with commands spanned on many lines, each terminating with a semicolon ";". You can also include comments
at the end of lines with "//" or comment many lines using "/* \*/". The scripts are stored
in `ChapProcessData`. For the moment `ChapProcessPrivate` is not used.

The Matroska Script contains the following commands.

### GotoAndPlay

The command is called with `GotoAndPlay( "<ChapterUID>" );`.

As the same suggests, it means that, when this command is encountered, the `Matroska Player`
**SHOULD** jump to the `Chapter` specified by the `ChapterUID` string and play it, as long as this `Chapter` exists.

### LogMsg

The command is called with `LogMsg( "A String" );`.

The `Matroska Player` **SHOULD** send the provided message to the user debugging console, if there is one.
In this example it would send "A String", without the double quotes, to the debugging console.



## DVD Menu

This is the case when `ChapProcessCodecID` = 1. Each level of a chapter corresponds
to a logical level in the DVD system [@?DVD-Video] that is stored in the first octet of the `ChapProcessPrivate`.
This DVD hierarchy is as follows:

| ChapProcessPrivate | DVD Name | Hierarchy                                           | Commands Possible | Comment                                   |
|--------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| 0x30               | SS       | DVD domain                                          | -                 | First Play, Video Manager, Video Title    |
| 0x2A               | LU       | Language Unit                                       | -                 | Contains only PGCs                        |
| 0x28               | TT       | Title                                               | -                 | Contains only PGCs                        |
| 0x20               | PGC      | Program Group Chain (PGC)                           | *                 |                                           |
| 0x18               | PG       | Program 1 / Program 2 / Program 3                   | -                 |                                           |
| 0x10               | PTT      | Part Of Title 1 / Part Of Title 2                   | -                 | Equivalent to the chapters on the sleeve. |
| 0x08               | CN       | Cell 1 / Cell 2 / Cell 3 / Cell 4 / Cell 5 / Cell 6 | -                 |                                           |

You can also recover wether a Segment is a Video Manager (VMG), Video Title Set (VTS)
or Video Title Set Menu (VTSM) from the ChapterTranslateID element found in the Segment Info.
This field uses 2 octets as follows:

1.  Domain Type: 0 for VMG, the domain number for VTS and VTSM
2.  Domain Value: 0 for VMG and VTSM, 1 for the VTS source.

For instance, the menu part from VTS_01_0.VOB would be coded [1,0] and the content
part from VTS_02_3.VOB would be [2,1]. The VMG is always [0,0]

The following octets of `ChapProcessPrivate` are as follows:

| Octet 1 | DVD Name | Following Octets                                                                             |
|---------|----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 0x30    | SS       | Domain name code (1: 0x00= First play, 0xC0= VMG, 0x40= VTSM, 0x80= VTS) + VTS(M) number (2) |
| 0x2A    | LU       | Language code (2) + Language extension (1)                                                   |
| 0x28    | TT       | global Title number (2) + corresponding TTN of the VTS (1)                                   |
| 0x20    | PGC      | PGC number (2) + Playback Type (1) + Disabled User Operations (4)                            |
| 0x18    | PG       | Program number (2)                                                                           |
| 0x10    | PTT      | PTT-chapter number (1)                                                                       |
| 0x08    | CN       | Cell number [VOB ID(2)][Cell ID(1)][Angle Num(1)]                                            |

If the level specified in `ChapProcessPrivate` is a PGC (0x20), there is an octet
called the Playback Type, specifying the kind of PGC defined:

*   `0x00`: entry only/basic PGC

*   `0x82`: Title+Entry Menu (only found in the Video Manager domain)

*   `0x83`: Root Menu (only found in the VTSM domain)

*   `0x84`: Subpicture Menu (only found in the VTSM domain)

*   `0x85`: Audio Menu (only found in the VTSM domain)

*   `0x86`: Angle Menu (only found in the VTSM domain)

*   `0x87`: Chapter Menu (only found in the VTSM domain)

The next 4 following octets correspond to the `User Operation flags`
in the standard PGC. When a bit is set, the command **SHOULD** be disabled.

`ChapProcessData` contains the pre/post/cell commands in binary format as there are stored on a DVD.
There is just an octet preceding these data to specify the number of commands in the element.
As follows: [# of commands(1)][command 1 (8)][command 2 (8)][command 3 (8)].

More information on the DVD commands and format on DVD
from the [@?DVD-Info] project and [@?Inside-DVD-Video].
